Maya De Los Santos is a first-generation Afro-Latina pursuing an Electrical and Computer Engineering degree in Northeastern University's Honors Program and is a research assistant in the Civic AI lab led by Dr. Saiph Savage. In her current work, Maya is dedicated to designing and researching human-centered AI systems that ensure fair work opportunities for Latina gig workers. Maya is also a Google Generation Scholarship Recipient, a Grace Hopper Celebration Scholar, and was selected for an NSF grant to participate in Carnegie Mellon University's REUSE research program. Here, she published a first-author paper on TikTok users' awareness of the platform's privacy policy, which was presented at the 20th International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Multimedia. Maya also holds several leadership positions: she was the President of the Northeastern Chapter of the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and is an active member of the Black Engineering Student Society. In addition to her research in academia, Maya has also worked as a Software Engineer in Philips' healthcare department, where she utilized GitHub workflows, CI/CD practices, and DevOps principles to streamline the transition to a modernized microservice-based application. Maya is leveraging her engineering background to create human-centered AI technologies in collaboration with stakeholders in the US, Latin America, and the Caribbean. This has broadened her perspective on designing inclusive intelligent technologies for underserved populations who have often been forgotten.

Maya cares deeply about advancing technology's social impact and hopes to continue her interests in data privacy and AI fairness in her future endeavors.
